## 1. Building a bookdown

## 1A. Structure & file types
A bookdown follows a particular structure and necessitates different types of files. Below, we will detail the structure and the required file specifications. We will describe 2 configuration files: the **.yml file** & the **Index.md**. The web may detail other configuration set-ups (with maybe more files) that lead to similar results. (Before talking about configuration parameters, we will introduce the files including the contents that are displayed in the Bookdown.)

### Multiple Rmarkdown files 

A bookdown consists of a combination of chapters, which are defined by separate Rmarkdown files. RBookdown is able to identify the chapter order because we name the files alphanumerically. Importantly, the file name must not contain spaces. 


### ".yml"  file : configuration settings
- A file of .yml extension that includes yaml code defining configuration settings for the bookdown. For now, we will call this file "_bookdown.yml". 

In it we can specify: 
- The name of the **folder where all bookdown outputs will go**. (**Impt**: This is the folder that we will use to publish the bookdown on GitPages). It it specified by "output_dir": 
	 `output_dir: "docs"`
- If we would like to keep the **merged file combining all bookdown chapters**: 
	 `delete_merged_file: true`
- How we will **name the chapters**: 
		`language:
		   `ui:
			`chapter_name: "Chapter "

All together this looks like this: 
` delete_merged_file: true
` language:
  ` ui:
    `chapter_name: "Chapter "
`output_dir: "docs"

### Index.md file: configuration settings 

The Index.md file will be an Markdown file that will specify certain settings at the top of the page. General specifications are **title, author, date, site, output, document class and description**. 

Here is an example of the code lines that we can write at the top of this file: 

`---
title: "Pakistan Data Analyses"
author: "Ainhoa Ugarteche"
date: "`r Sys.Date()`"
site: bookdown::bookdown_site
output:
  bookdown::gitbook:
    code_folding: hide
    toc_collapse: section
documentclass: book
`---

Here, after specifying bookdown as the output type, we defined **parameters for code display & the table of contents sidebar**. 

On top of specifying configuration settings, in this Markdown file we include we would like to display as in the **cover page**. 

## 1B. Render bookdown 

Once all configuration files include the desired parameters & our Rmarkdown files independently run and produce the expected outputs, we are ready to render the bookdown. In the console, we can run the following code lines. 

`install.packages("bookdown")`
`bookdown::render_book("index.Rmd", output_dir = "docs")`

After rendering is complete, all our files will be found in the "docs" folder, since we had defined it as the output folder. To publish the bookdown online, we will need to transfer the "docs" folder into GitHub and enable GitHub Pages. 

## 2. Publish the book in GitHub Pages 
### Prerequisites 
- Set-up GitHub account
- Create empty repository in GitHub: the **remote repository**
- Download GitBash or Git for Studio (to enable actions in GitHub from our machine)

### Link local & remote repositories & transfer files in remote repo

**In GitBash**
1.Initialize git in **local repository**
	`git init` 
2.Link **local repository to the foreign repository** in GitHub
	`git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/mybook.git 
3.Add local repository to the foreign repository 
	`git add .`  (#If adding all contents in the local repository)
	`git add docs` (#If just adding folder docs)
3 . Commit 
	` git commit -m "Initial bookdown project"
4 . Push 
	`git push -u origin master

**In R Studio Project**
**The background steps are the same** 
		Go to **Tools > Project Options > Git/SVN** and enable Git
		 //To be detailed//!!!!!


### Enable GitPages in GitHub

**In GitHub Repository** 

[Settings]/[Pages]/: 
- [In Source] : "Deploy from a branch"
- [Branch ] :  [Select_BranchName] & [FolderToOutput]

After selecting the directories, a window will be displayed at the top with the message "Your site is live at http://xxx"



## 3. Handling updated version 
### Clean and rebuild the book

1. Clean all bookdown outputs
	- `bookdown::clean_book()
	To let clean_book() to run, this codeline needs to be ran: 
	- `options(bookdown.clean_book = TRUE)` 

2. Rebuild the book with render:
	- `bookdown::render_book("index.Rmd", output_dir = "docs")`

3. Transfer files into GitHub Pages 
	**In GitBash**
	- `git add .`  // `git add docs`
	- `git commit -m "Other Changes"
	- `git push