
After the bookdown has been deployed to the "docs" folder, we will be able to see all the file dependencies important for book display. Everything that GitPages will need to visualize the book online is in the "docs" folder. GitPages will use only **one source folder** to create its website. 

## Plots & Figures Referencing 

In the "docs" source-folder, some subfolders will contain the **plots/figures sourced by the .html files**. These folders can have **different origins**: 

1. Folder that stocks **external images** sourced in the Rmarkdown files. 
	- This folder is copied into "docs". Html files source the images with the new relative directory: docs/Images/... .png 

2. Folder that stocks **plots rendered upon Bookdown build**. 
	- This folder will stock all plots generated by R code lines and name them based on their chunk number, by default. 

	- **Important note** : Default bookdown settings will create a folder named "main_files" with an underscore as a prefix. Folder names that begin with an underscore are ignored by GitPages. This means that if the folder name for plots is not specify, when visualizing the Bookdown in GitPages, we won't be able to see any of the plots. (These plots are correctly rendered locally, outside of GitPages). 
		--> In the set-up chunk of the "index.Rmd" file, we can change the name of this folder, through "**fig.path**" : 
		
			knitr::opts_chunk$set(
			  fig.path = 'Plots/figure-html/',
			  fig.cap = '',
			  echo = TRUE,
			  warning = FALSE,
			  message = FALSE
			)
