
After the bookdown has been deployed to the "docs" folder, we will be able to see all the files & dependencies important for book display. Everything that GitPages will need to visualize the book online is in the "docs" folder. GitPages will use only **one source folder** to create its website. 

## Plots & Figures Referencing 


In the "docs" folder, some subfolders will contain the **plots/figures sourced by the .MD files** for .html display. Displayed plots/figures may have **different origins**. There are:  

1. **External images** manually saved in self-created folder & referenced within Rmarkdown files. 
	- Upon rendering, this folder will copied into the outputs folder. Html files source the images with the new relative directory: docs/Images/... .png 


2. **Plots rendered upon Bookdown build** & saved in a folder created by the rendering process
	- This folder will stock all plots generated by R code lines & plots will be named them based on their chunk number by default. 

	- **Important note** : Default bookdown settings will create a folder named "main_files" with an underscore as a prefix. Folder names that begin with an underscore are ignored by GitPages. This means that if the folder name for plots is not specified, when visualizing the Bookdown in GitPages, we won't be able to see any of the plots. (These plots are correctly rendered locally, outside of GitPages). 
	
	  --> To fix this, In the set-up chunk of the "index.Rmd" file, we can change the name of this folder, through "**fig.path**" : 
		
			knitr::opts_chunk$set(
			  fig.path = 'Plots/figure-html/',
			  fig.cap = '',
			  echo = TRUE,
			  warning = FALSE,
			  message = FALSE
			)
