## 1. Create a Repository in GitHub
To link a local repository to GitHub, we first need to create a repository in GitHub. 

1. Log into Github
2. Click on "+" to create new repository 
3. Next to "owner" include the repository name. 
	Can add: 
		a) .gitignore 
		b) README file 
	Can decide whether repository is public/private 


## 2. Link local repository to newly-created GitHub repo
Once the GitHub repository has been initialized, we can open GitBash and run command lines to transfer files into GitHub. 

1. Download GitBash 
2. Go into folder that would like to "upload" into GitHub 
3. Right-click, select more options, open with GitBash  (In Mac, right-click on folder)
4. In GitBash, run the following **code lines to execute file transfer**: 
	1. **git init** (#Initialize git. Un dossier ".git"se crée dans ce repertoire.)
	2. **git add .** (#Ajouter tous les fichiers du repertoire)
	3. **git commit -m "first commit"** (#Valider l'ajout et le labeliser avec un commentaire)
	4. **git remote add origin https://github.com/[username]/[repositoryname].git**(#Faire **lien** avec repertoire du serveur Github)
	5. **git branch -M main** (#Donner un nom à la branche, "main"/"master" sont bcp utilisés, où vont être déposer tous les fichiers. Necessaire de nommer une branche antécedante (upstream branch)  où deposer tous les documents. Les documents ne peuvent pas être déposés en vrac dans le repositoire GitHub. Le directoire dans GitHub ressemble à ceci:  origin/[branch_name]/[ensemble des dossiers et fichiers transférés])
	6. **git push** (#Executer le transfer des fichiers selectionnés et validés par git add. & git commit -m "")
		1. Si on a oublié de nommer la branche (Step 5), alors on peut ici faire:  
		 **git push --set-upstream origin main** 

	**Important note**: These **code lines** are also found on the main page of a newly created repository. 



## 3. Collaborate with others

A GitHub repository is useful for others to access its contents without any necessary permissions to access. Once we open a github repository link (i.e: https://github.com/ainhougar/MICSAnalysis), we see all its contents. We can **clone the repository locally** so we can work on these files.

**Cloning** 

`cd ~/directory_name/` (# Define the location where the folder is deployed)
`git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repo-name.git` (#Deployment. Folder will be repo's name). 

*Note* : Unlike when we set up a GitHub repository connection for the first time through remote `remote add origin`, when we clone a GitHub repository (someone else's work) **the remote connection does not need to be created**. It is automatically created with the name "origin" & pointing to the GitHub repo. 

**Pull most recent version**
Supposedly, the GitHub repository contains the most recent version of the work. If you would like to "download" after you had already cloned into your machine, you can open GitBash in your local folder and "download"/pull the Hub folder. 

`cd ~/directory_name/`
`git pull origin [branch_name]`


**Push changes**
To push change into a remote directory you must be a collaborator. That is set up by the remote repo owner & via [Settings]/[Collaborators & Teams]. We need to include their username & give permission to write. 

Once any changes have been performed by collaborators, they can push them through the standard git add, commit & push code lines. 

`git add .
`git commit -m "Describe what was changed"
`git push origin main

**Important** : Make sure that you are pushing onto the latest version in GitHub (avoids conflicts). For this, correctly pull prior to adding and pushing. 

