
Sometimes as we are committing or pushing file changes, we run into **some errors**: 

### Files/file structure in GitHub are very different to local repository 

GitHub does not expect major structural changes to the repository. When this happens, it will suggest that you **pull** the documents in its server & "recover" the deleted files. In this case you do: 
- git pull 
- git push 

However, other times, you dramatically changed the file structure and won't like to import anything from the GitHub server. In this case, you must force the push. 
- git push --force

## We try to commit/push changes but a file indicates that a parallel push has not been completed. 

When a parallel Git process has not been closed (a commit not pushed for example), a **file in ".git" will be blocking all other git processes from being executed**. This file generally is named "index.lock". The file can be removed manually or through GitBash: 
**Manual removal**
- You need to manually remove the .LOCK by accessing the .git folder. 
- **IMPORTANT**: The .git folder may be **not be visible** in the windows explorer directory where the repository has been initiated. To render it visible we need to: 
	- Click on View 
	- Show 
	- Hidden Items
	
	If the folder does not show, then we need change background system settings. 
	- Click on the three dot button, next to View.
	- Click on Options 
	- Click on View tab 
	- Uncheck " Hide Protected Operating System Files"

**GitBash removal**
- **cd '[filedirectory].git'** (#Define working directory)
- **rm index.lock**